
As many capital cities throughout Europe, Lisbon has greatly changed her profile during the last decades. Throughout the twentieth century, Lisbon was marked by a strong migration movement from the inner Portuguese country to the capital, as folks were looking for better economical conditions and life opportunities. At the same time, Lisbon has also received many immigrants from Portuguese former colonies, namely from Brazil, but also from Angola, Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde, Saint Tome and Principe, Goa in India, Macao in China, and Timor in Oceania. This whole composition, together with the older inhabitants of the city, has created a unique environment of cultural interchangeability, that has been further enhanced by a historical continuous welcome to other European people and to people from all over the world that came as visitors and sometimes for longer period stays.

During the last three decades of the twentieth century, there was a significant enlargement of the urban area within the city, throughout the peripheral regions of Lisbon, that culminated with the whole rehabilitation of the former port area where the world exposition Expo'98 took place. Meanwhile, the historical center was suffering from having many old buildings, that needed to be reconstructed and repaired. By the end of the 90's, a plan was therefore carried out by the local government for the material rehabilitation of this sector. However, this came at a huge cost: all the inhabitants of the old city were forced to leave their homes and move either to the outskirts of the city (a few people) or to other towns nearby, but outside Lisbon (most people). The newly reconstructed buildings were set to extremely high prices, that their former residents could not afford to buy or rent, and so the whole historical center was mostly occupied by exquisite people who could afford the property, by tourists, as many of the buildings were turned into hotels and other temporary accommodation houses, and also by new immigrant communities, specially coming from Asian countries. In this fashion, the traditional local life was set to destruction and even the commercial establishments, that could temporarily survive by the large effort of old residents, that would come and go every day from afar, are now almost completely disappeared. The new face of the old city became therefore one of tourism and exploration, deprived of inner life. An empty place, without souls that would bind to the place by being born and raised there. An extended museum.  
 
Meanwhile, whilst the historical center of Lisbon was turning up into a large museum, the central area of the city developed into a working place, and the same trends as those that happened in the historical center were noticed by the reconstruction of buildings, again set to extremely high prices that locals could not afford. However, the local commercial establishments could better resit due to the permanent flux of people everyday coming to and fro from outside towns. The reality of central Lisbon then became one of life during the day, and emptiness during the night. 

Only the peripheral areas of the city remained occupied by local inhabitants, yet fading from two major problems: in some areas the population became fairly aged, and in other areas the population became segregated into communities of economically richer people. 
  
In the same way as those former residents of the historical center, and the city center as well, that were dominantly middle class to poor people, the immigrant communities mostly had to move out as well, to towns outside of the city.

Aware of this situation, the local government has initiated a plan for the restoration of Lisbon city in different stages, aimed to reshape the city into a new metropolis, able to lively accommodate her locals in a balanced way, warm welcome other national people, as well as foreigners that wish to come, and to develop a plan for the integration of minority groups who remain socially segregated.

In order to accomplish this highly demanding and complex task, one of the government requests is a study of the local life in each of the parishes in Lisbon, that can report on the actual living habits and conditions of its inhabitants, in order to define political measures that will prioritize the benefit of the resident population over the benefit of the working external population and tourism population. 

A study approach for this problem is to collect data on the existence and number of Collectivities per parish. Collectivities are associations that have traditionally been extremely relevant for the recreational, cultural, and sportive development of the resident population. Very often, such centers were created by migrant populations from the inner country, that would in this way preserve the local culture of their regions, making Lisbon into a multicultural center of the whole country. For instance, traditional dances and traditional music have been preserved and developed in this centers. Moreover, the most important football (soccer) clubs in Lisbon, such as SLB (Sport Lisboa e Benfica) and SCP (Sporting Clube de Portugal) are indeed listed as Collectivities as well. The purpose of collecting data on Collectivities is therefore to study Lisbon life in terms of permanent residents. 

In order to study the current life of the city in general, participated by all people who visit it, including external workers and tourists, one can collect data on the current venues within each parish. An attempt can then be made to study whether there is a correlation between the local life, using Collectivities as indicators, and external life, using venues in general as indicators.

With basis on what can be learned from these data, we hope to be able to provide the local government with indications for concrete measures that can be implemented for restoring Lisbon in terms of resident population, or at least with indications for further studies.

